README.md, before:

# Gridsome Source Storyblok

The official [Storyblok](https://www.storyblok.com/) integration with [Gridsome](https://gridsome.org/).

To see it in action take a look at the [Storyblok Gridsome Boilerplate](https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok-gridsome-boilerplate).

## Install

```sh
yarn add gridsome-source-storyblok # or npm install gridsome-source-storyblok
```

## Usage

1. In `gridsome.config.js`, declare the use of the plugin and define the options:

```js
// in gridsome.config.js
{
  siteName: 'Gridsome',
  plugins: [
    {
      use: 'gridsome-source-storyblok',
      options: {
        client: {
          accessToken: '<YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN>'
        },
        version: 'draft',
        typeName: 'StoryblokEntry'
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

2. In the `src/templates` folder create a `.vue` file with the same name you defined in the `typeName` option (default is `StoryblokEntry`). After that set a `<page-query>` tag to load the data from GraphQL. For example:

```html
<page-query>
query StoryblokEntry ($id: ID) {
  storyblokEntry (id: $id) {
    id
    slug
    content
  }
}
</page-query>
```

3. Edit the file `gridsome.server.js` to use a GraphQL query to generate the pages using Storyblok's full_slug attribute

```js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.createPages(async ({ graphql, createPage }) => {
    const { data } = await graphql(`{
      allStoryblokEntry {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            full_slug
          }
        }
      }
    }`)

    data.allStoryblokEntry.edges.forEach(({ node }) => {
      createPage({
        path: `/${node.full_slug}`,
        component: './src/templates/StoryblokEntry.vue',
        context: {
          id: node.id
        }
      })
    })
  })
}
```

## The options object in details

When you declare the use of the Storyblok plugin you can pass following options:

```js
{
  use: 'gridsome-source-storyblok',
  options: {
    client: {
      // The Storyblok JS Client options here (https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok-js-client)
      accessToken: '<YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN>' // required!
    },
    version: 'draft' // Optional. Can be draft or published (default draft)
    typeName: 'StoryblokEntry' // Optional. The template name (default StoryblokEntry)
    params: {} // Optional. Additional query parameters
    additionalTypes: [
      {type: 'datasources', name: 'StoryblokDatasource'},
      {type: 'datasource_entries', name: 'StoryblokDatasourceEntry', params: {...additionalQueryParams}},
      {type: 'tags', name: 'StoryblokTag'},
      {type: 'links', name: 'StoryblokLink'}
    ] // Optional: Get additional types like datasources, links or tags
  }
}
```

## Rendering of the Rich Text field

This plugin comes with a built in renderer to get html output from Storyblok's Rich Text field. Create and register a `Richtext.vue` component with the code below to use the renderer in your components like this: `<richtext :text="blok.richtext"></richtext>`.

~~~js
<template>
  <div>
    <div v-html="richtext"></div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  props: ['text'],
  computed: {
    richtext() {
      return this.text ? this.$storyapi.richTextResolver.render(this.text) : ''
    }
  }
}
</script>
~~~


## Contribution

Fork me on [Github](https://github.com/storyblok/gridsome-source-storyblok)

Commit message:

docs: add semantic-release to project
* Change package.json to remove version
* Add a comment about it in Contribution README section

README.md, after:

# Gridsome Source Storyblok

The official [Storyblok](https://www.storyblok.com/) integration with [Gridsome](https://gridsome.org/).

To see it in action take a look at the [Storyblok Gridsome Boilerplate](https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok-gridsome-boilerplate).

## Install

```sh
yarn add gridsome-source-storyblok # or npm install gridsome-source-storyblok
```

## Usage

1. In `gridsome.config.js`, declare the use of the plugin and define the options:

```js
// in gridsome.config.js
{
  siteName: 'Gridsome',
  plugins: [
    {
      use: 'gridsome-source-storyblok',
      options: {
        client: {
          accessToken: '<YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN>'
        },
        version: 'draft',
        typeName: 'StoryblokEntry'
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

2. In the `src/templates` folder create a `.vue` file with the same name you defined in the `typeName` option (default is `StoryblokEntry`). After that set a `<page-query>` tag to load the data from GraphQL. For example:

```html
<page-query>
query StoryblokEntry ($id: ID) {
  storyblokEntry (id: $id) {
    id
    slug
    content
  }
}
</page-query>
```

3. Edit the file `gridsome.server.js` to use a GraphQL query to generate the pages using Storyblok's full_slug attribute

```js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.createPages(async ({ graphql, createPage }) => {
    const { data } = await graphql(`{
      allStoryblokEntry {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            full_slug
          }
        }
      }
    }`)

    data.allStoryblokEntry.edges.forEach(({ node }) => {
      createPage({
        path: `/${node.full_slug}`,
        component: './src/templates/StoryblokEntry.vue',
        context: {
          id: node.id
        }
      })
    })
  })
}
```

## The options object in details

When you declare the use of the Storyblok plugin you can pass following options:

```js
{
  use: 'gridsome-source-storyblok',
  options: {
    client: {
      // The Storyblok JS Client options here (https://github.com/storyblok/storyblok-js-client)
      accessToken: '<YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN>' // required!
    },
    version: 'draft' // Optional. Can be draft or published (default draft)
    typeName: 'StoryblokEntry' // Optional. The template name (default StoryblokEntry)
    params: {} // Optional. Additional query parameters
    additionalTypes: [
      {type: 'datasources', name: 'StoryblokDatasource'},
      {type: 'datasource_entries', name: 'StoryblokDatasourceEntry', params: {...additionalQueryParams}},
      {type: 'tags', name: 'StoryblokTag'},
      {type: 'links', name: 'StoryblokLink'}
    ] // Optional: Get additional types like datasources, links or tags
  }
}
```

## Rendering of the Rich Text field

This plugin comes with a built in renderer to get html output from Storyblok's Rich Text field. Create and register a `Richtext.vue` component with the code below to use the renderer in your components like this: `<richtext :text="blok.richtext"></richtext>`.

~~~js
<template>
  <div>
    <div v-html="richtext"></div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  props: ['text'],
  computed: {
    richtext() {
      return this.text ? this.$storyapi.richTextResolver.render(this.text) : ''
    }
  }
}
</script>
~~~


## Contribution

Fork me on [Github](https://github.com/storyblok/gridsome-source-storyblok).

This project use [semantic-release](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/) for generate new versions by using commit messages and we use the Angular Convention to naming the commits. Check [this question](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/support/faq#how-can-i-change-the-type-of-commits-that-trigger-a-release) about it in semantic-release FAQ.
